Add 2020-10-12-ambrosia-alpha-release (#88)
comit-network/comit.network: blog/2020-10-12-ambrosia-alpha-release.md

Last year, we spent time and effort creating tools, such as [`create-comit-app` and `comit-scripts`](https://github.com/comit-network/create-comit-app/) to allow developers to build their own COMIT Apps.
We organised local meetups in Sydney and even a hackathon in Singapore.
We had a number of developers excited about the technology and possibilities that COMIT bring in but very few committed to build an app.

We now realized that before we can expect others build successful apps with our tools, we should demonstrate what can be done with COMIT ourselves.

<!--truncate-->

# Introducing Ambrosia

<img alt="Ambrosia" src={useBaseUrl('blog/assets/images/2020-10/ambrosia.png')} />

This is why we spent the last few months working on [ambrosia](https://github.com/comit-network/ambrosia/), an UI for trading in the COMIT network.
Ambrosia allows you to trade BTC/DAI in a decentralised manner. No third party to trust, no central orderbook, no KYC.
It uses [cnd](https://github.com/comit-network/ambrosia/comit-rs) as backend.

The software has some rough edges, but we wanted to get it out there to have your feedback.
Here are some choices we want your input on:

## Custody

> Not only do you not need to trust a third party with your funds when trading, even our software is completely non-custodial.
> Ambrosia never holds your crypto, instead it interfaces directly with your hardware wallet (nano ledger s only) to make transactions.

Reviewer: I propose to rephrase this as I had to read the first sentence twice to understand it: 
```suggestion
Ambrosia never holds your crypto, instead it interfaces directly with your hardware wallet (nano ledger s only) to make transactions. 
This is a huge step up towards trustless trading compared to traditional centralized solutions where you have to deposit your funds into an exchange first. 
```

> 

Reviewer: Not sure how to do quotes in markdown anymore, but this could fit here :) 
```suggestion

> Not your keys not your crypto

```

Author: You are making my life hard by doing 2 different suggestions on the same piece of text. Please don't.

We also expect users to have access to an Ethereum node, thanks to the standard web3 interface, it is also possible to use services such as Infura.

## Trading pair

The COMIT Network Daemon (cnd) supports various trading pairs: BTC/ETH, BTC/ERC20, Lightning BTC/ETH, etc.
However, we have limited Ambrosia to the BTC/DAI pair as we know that Bitcoin/USD is the most popular pair.

## Decentralised Orderbook

We have a [nectar](https://github.com/comit-network/comit-rs) instance that runs and acts as a maker.
At this stage, ambrosia can only swap with nectar.

Each application have their own copy of the decentralised orderbook, they build it by asking the latest offers to their peers. 

## Trying it out

The software is currently in an alpha state, bugs are known and expected.
We are using on mainnet and invite you to try it too.

We do not provide a testnet setup simply because it can be cumbersome to find working faucets or use an hardware wallet.
Also, we have noticed that the experience can differ on mainnet and testnet.

If you want to try out, we strongly recommend you have a chat with us so we can assist:

> -   Email: [team@coblox.tech](mailto:team@coblox.tech)

Reviewer: 🚧 This email should be internal only! 
```suggestion
-   Email: [hello@comit.network](mailto:hello@comit.network)
```

---
title: "Trade Bitcoin and DAI with COMIT"
author: franck
author_url: https://github.com/d4nte
author_image_url: https://avatars1.githubusercontent.com/u/300805
tags: [bitcoin,dai,atomic swap,ambrosia]
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

# A Change of Direction

Last year, we spent time and effort creating tools, such as [`create-comit-app` and `comit-scripts`](https://github.com/comit-network/create-comit-app/) to allow developers to build their own COMIT Apps.
We organised local meetups in Sydney and even a hackathon in Singapore.
We had a number of developers excited about the technology and possibilities that COMIT bring in but very few committed to build an app.

> We know realize that before other build successful apps with our tools, we should demonstrate what can be done with COMIT ourselves.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We now realize that before other build successful apps with our tools, we should demonstrate what can be done with COMIT ourselves.
```

> We know realize that before other build successful apps with our tools, we should demonstrate what can be done with COMIT ourselves.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We now realized that before we can expect others build successful apps with our tools, we should demonstrate what can be done with COMIT ourselves.
```

> # Ambrosia

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Introducing Ambrosia
```

<img alt="Ambrosia" src={useBaseUrl('blog/assets/images/2020-10-12/ambrosia.png')} />

This is why we spent the last few months working on [Ambrosia](https://github.com/comit-network/ambrosia/), an UI for trading in the COMIT network.
Ambrosia allows you to trade BTC/DAI in a decentralised manner. No third party to trust, no central orderbook, no KYC.

> It uses [cnd](https://github.com/comit-network/ambrosia/comit-rs) has a bakend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It uses [cnd](https://github.com/comit-network/ambrosia/comit-rs) as backend.
```

> The software has some rough edges, but we wanted to get it out there to have your feedback. Here are some choices we want your input on:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The software has some rough edges, but we wanted to get it out there to have your feedback.
Here are some choices we want your input on:
```

## Custody

> Not only you do not need to trust a third party with your fund when trading, even our software is non-custodial.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Not only do you not need to trust a third party with your funds when trading, even our software is completely non-custodial.
```

> Ambrosia never holds your crypto, it interfaces with your hardware wallet (nano ledger s only) to make payments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ambrosia never holds your crypto, instead it interfaces directly with your hardware wallet (nano ledger s only) to make transactions.
```

We believe that custody and security are important criteria to our users, hence we also assume that users are running their own [Bitcoin Core](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin) node.

> 

Reviewer 3: If your hardware is beefy enough, you can even run your own Ethereum node :)
But for those who don't want that, we made sure it works with Infura!

> ## Trading pair

Reviewer 3: I would not mention that, it makes it sound less good :D

Author: what do you mean?

Reviewer 3: That we only support one trading pair on the frontend but more on the backend. Sounds like it is a technical design choice that is quite irrelevant to the user :)

Author: It is supposed to sound like that we could support any pair if people ask.

Author: corrected.

The COMIT Network Daemon (cnd) supports various trading pairs: BTC/ETH, BTC/ERC20, Lightning BTC/ETH, etc.

> However, we have limited Ambrosia to the BTC/DAI pair as we know that Bitcoin/USD.. are usually the most popular pair.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, we have limited Ambrosia to the BTC/DAI pair as we know that Bitcoin/USD... is the most popular pair.
```

## Decentralised Orderbook

> At this stage, Ambrosia can only take offers.

Reviewer 2: ? This might be confusing to people. 
Ambrosia can actually create arbitrary orders, but because there is nobody in the market yet (besides our nectar) it is very likely that an order that is not in nectar's favor won't match.

Reviewer 3: Agree that we should rephrase that.

> We have a [nectar](https://github.com/comit-network/comit-rs) instance that runs and acts as a maker.

Reviewer 3: Do we want to mention that? :D

Author: yeah in case one try to swap with another ambrosia

Reviewer 3: Well, what about the "don't mention publicly that we are running a nectar instance"? I think @bonomat had concerns here :man_shrugging:

Reviewer: Good point. Please change it to show that this is only for test purposes :) 
```suggestion
For test purposes only we have a temporary [nectar](https://github.com/comit-network/comit-rs) instance that runs and acts as a maker.
```

## Trying it out

The software is currently in an alpha state, bugs are known and expected.

> If you want to try out, we strongly recommend you have a chat with us so we can assist:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to try Ambrosia out, we strongly recommend you have a chat with us so we can assist:
```

-   Email: [team@coblox.tech](mailto:team@coblox.tech)
-   Matrix chat: [#comit:matrix.org](https://matrix.to/#/!HYBOPcopXgKbEnEELc:matrix.org?via=matrix.org&via=privacytools.io) (e2e encryption enabled)
-   Twitter: [@comit_network](https://twitter.com/comit_network)

> If you want to try it yourself, you need 2 components:

Reviewer 2: If you add this section you might also want to add that Ambrosia depends on Ledger Nano S being present. 
And the full-node requirement.

Author: Yeah, I hesitated, will add.
